---
date: 2022-10-16 21:55:08.000153
tags: 
id: 20221016095508
---

#golf--training #training #training--bodyType

https://blog.nasm.org/fitness/body-types-how-to-train-diet-for-your-body-type

# How to Train Endomorphs

Training **endomorphs** should predominantly focus on fat loss techniques until a desirable body composition and functional cardiorespiratory efficiency have been achieved. Resistance training should be used to strengthen muscles and stabilize joints to support more-efficient movement elsewhere in life, but this population **tends to need cardiorespiratory improvement and fat loss above all**.

In the gym, work through OPT Phase 1 and Phase 2, but keep the majority of training sessions focused on metabolic conditioning. Use short rest periods, circuits for resistance exercises, lots of plyometrics (within client tolerance), and use as much additional time as possible for steady-state cardio.

Consistent anaerobic and aerobic training will help endomorphic bodies increase their metabolic efficiency and boost the body’s daily energy requirement. Additionally, recommend that primarily-endomorphic clients increase their **non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT) factor** as much as possible, moving more during times of the day when they’re not in the gym. **Commitment to a less-sedentary lifestyle overall is the most important thing for this population to begin overcoming their metabolic challenges**.

blog ad

podcast ad

Due to those slower metabolisms (regardless of the underlying cause) and a surplus of stored energy (body fat), nutritional solutions for primarily-endomorphic individuals should focus on techniques to maximize fat loss while still supporting, and even building, the existing lean muscle mass. To accomplish this, a diet that is both low-calorie and high in protein is ideal. Diets containing daily protein of as much as 2.2 grams per kilogram body weight (and sometimes even higher) have been shown safe and effective for supporting existing muscle tissue during times of calorie restriction and weight loss.

After ensuring that daily protein requirements have been met, the remaining pool of calories can come from whatever blend of carbs and fats the individual best tolerates. Some may tolerate a very low-carb “ketogenic” diet that helps them preferentially burn even more fat throughout the day, while others will experience hypoglycemia and its associated nauseating symptoms without enough carbohydrates in their diet.

This rings especially true during workouts, where carbs are important to fuel the higher intensities needed for cardiorespiratory improvement. But regardless of whether carbs or fats are the preferred source of energy, the most important thing is to determine the client’s total daily calorie requirement and keep food intake a bit lower (with still-ample protein) so that the body remains in a negative energy balance with as little muscle catabolism as possible.

TLDR:

    Maximize calorie burn and the improvement of metabolic efficiency by primarily using high-intensity, metabolic training techniques.
    Consume a high-protein diet with balanced carbs and fats that maintains a slight negative energy balance.

If you are an Ectomorph and want to gain muscle, check your nutrition. Here are some great recipes for gaining muscle to help you hit your goals. 