**Fact #1**. Short irons are much more similar to wedges than your middle irons. But almost all iron sets feature a consistent back design for cosmetic appeal on the store racks. And while that deep cavity and perimeter weight distribution certainly help you hit higher and more consistent shots with your 3- or 4- through 7-iron, **as the loft gets in the 40-degree range and higher, that weight distribution is not your friend**. Regardless of your skill level, short irons should be designed much more similar to wedges than to your middle irons.

**Fact #2**. As loft increases, perimeter weighting is less effective. **Missed shots off of higher lofted clubs have less directional deviation than off of lower-lofted clubs**. This is proven time and again on “Iron Byron” robotic testers.

Fact #3. **It takes mass behind the ball to deliver consistent distances**. Even on dead center hits, cavity back, thin-face irons do not deliver tack-driver distance control like a blade design. In my post of a couple of years ago, “The Round Club Mindset,” I urged readers to borrow blade-style short irons from a friend or assistant pro and watch the difference in trajectories and shotmaking. Do it! You will be surprised, enlightened, and most likely pleased with the results.

Fact #4. The 4.5-degree difference between irons is part of the problem. The industry has built irons around this formula forever, but every golfer who knows his distances can tell you that the full swing distance gap gets larger as the iron number increases, i.e. your gap between your 8- and 9-iron is probably larger than that between your 4- and 5-iron. Could there be some club tweaking called for here?

Fact #5. Your irons do not have to “match.” If you find through experimentation that you get better results with the blade style short irons, get some and have your whole set re-shafted to match, along with lengths and lie angles. These are the keys to true “matching” anyway.

https://www.golfwrx.com/694984/wedge-guy-short-iron-challenges-and-a-little-insight-hopefully

#golf--clubTechnology [[202209151745]]