---
timestamp: 2022-10-20 14:12:38.661893
tags: 
id: 20221020021238
---

#golf--skills 

# The 100 Ball Skill Test Framework

I got a couple questions about the 100 ball skill test I mentioned the other day and even though I’m still just testing it on myself, I figured I’d give the basic idea and framework in case you have ideas or want to experiment with your own game.

I think of the 100 ball test as a Weekly Business Review (WBR) for my golf game.

It’s divided into ten 10-ball tests that each cover a specific skill needed to play good golf.

For the sake of the WBR metaphor, I call these my Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).

The KPIs are…

1.  Putting - Start Line

2.  Putting - Distance + Line Control

3.  Chipping - Distance

4.  Pitching - Distance

5.  Face Strike

6.  Ground Strike

7.  Start Line

8.  Curvature (face/path relationship)

9.  Trajectory

10.  Driver ball speed

Each of these is it’s own separate game with a maximum score of 10-15 pts.

I don’t think the specifics of the game and scoring are all that important as long as you’re measuring the right thing at appropriate difficulty (something you can achieve ~7 of 10 times).

For example, with the putting start line test, I put 2” gates at 18” from the ball. Every putt that makes it clean through is 1 pt. Every miss = 0 pts & I just record which side I hit.

To simulate a bit of pressure, I’ll throw in a couple yellow “Birdie balls” worth 2 pts.

The entire philosophy behind this skill based approach is influenced by what I’ve learned from @adamyounggolf & @practicalgolf, and they’re also my first resource when I want to improve at any of these KPIs.

Credit also to @LouStagner for championing the quantified approach.

If I had to add a few more KPIs into the mix (for me specifically and my off-season strength focus), I’d add:

11. Deadlift
12. Pull-ups
13. Squat
14. Bench press
15. Vertical jump

The hope is that improvements here manifest in the Driver Ball speed KPI.

I like this approach because it gives me a way of decomposing the elements of hitting good golf shots & measuring my progress with each.

It also helps focus my practice time.

Right now work hours are long and days are short, so I can’t afford to practice without purpose.

Going through each of these tests and recording it all can take a while, so I normally break it up into two sessions. It takes me about an hour and a half total, but may take longer when you’re figuring it out the first couple times.

Anyway, I have a redeye into Charlottesville tonight for the Velcren Invitational (Wahoo!!!) and am probably going to be too excited to sleep, so if you have questions let me have ‘em!